# https://engineering.buffalo.edu/computer-science-engineering/about-us/support-cse.html

Support CSE - Department of Computer Science and Engineering - University at Buffalo
Support Computer Science and Engineering
CSE student demonstrates technology to a young visitor
Your gift to the Department of Computer Science and Engineering helps advance our mission to serve students, provide cutting-edge educational experiences, and advance world-class research.
Donations have helped fund student scholarship and fellowships, chaired professorships, educational enhancement such as lecture series, as well as critical labs and research centers.
Your impact
Here are a few examples of how CSE alumni and friends have helped support our students and faculty:
The creation of a fund to advance our research and understanding of Blockchain technology.
Endowed fellowship to attract high-caliber graduate students to the department.
Donations support our undergraduate research and co-curricular activities like our annual Hack-a-thon event.
Named Chair in Software Engineering that is advancing our research abilities.
CSE Alumni Gift Catalog 2025
New in 2025!
Please consider funding items from our:
CSE Alumni Gift Catalog 2025
The gift catalog is a wish list of our most urgent departmental needs.
Funds
Computer Science and Engineering Challenge
A very generous anonymous donor will donate $5,000 for every 25 donors who give to the Computer Science and Engineering Department Fund (up to a max of $25,000).
Support the challenge
Computer Science and Engineering Department Fund
Your gift will help hard-working computer science and engineering students fulfill their dreams by funding their studies and extracurricular enrichment activities.
Support our students
Computer Science and Engineering—Legacy Endowment
The CSE Legacy Endowment, establish in 2024 thanks to an anonymous donor, will support student, faculty and departmental initiatives for years to come.
Support the CSE Legacy Endowment
Computer Science and Engineering—Building Tomorrow, Together: Alumni Giving 2025
Your gift from the
CSE Alumni Gift Catalog 2025
will help the department achieve its highest priority needs.  Please browse the items in the catalog, above, and consider giving to support whichever priorities you are most passionate about.  Select from catalog items A-O and then indicate your choice in the comments field.
Support CSE