# https://engineering.buffalo.edu/computer-science-engineering/graduate.html

Graduate - Department of Computer Science and Engineering - University at Buffalo
Apply Now
Admissions Information
Request More Information
Request more information about a graduate program
Graduate Program
Students, faculty, alumni, and industry professionals gather to discuss our latest research projects at CSE Industrial Career Day '16. Photo credit: Onion Studio
UB President and Computer Science Professor Satish Tripathi welcomes attendees to the CSE 50th Anniversary Graduate Research Conference in the CFA, September 29, 2017. Photo credit: Angela Doll Photography
Dr. Wenyao Xu and Kun Woo Cho (CEN BS '18) demo their autism spectrum disorder-detection software in Davis Hall. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
Students collaborate on a UB PhoneLab programming project in Davis 301B, 2012. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
Qi Li (PhD '17) and Yaliang Li (PhD '17) present "Truth Discovery: Resolve Conflicts in Big Data". Qi and Yaliang's PhD advisor is Jing Gao. Photo credit: Ken Smith
CSE Chair Dr. Chunming Qiao kicks off the department's 50th anniversary celebration in Davis Hall. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
CSE Demo Day '17 faculty and students, December 7, 2017. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Dr. Rohini Srihari at her desk in the former Center of Excellence for Document Analysis and Recognition (CEDAR) headquarters in the UB Commons, 2011. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
The ACV Auctions delegation at UB Hacking '18, November 3, 2018. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Tamal Biswas (PhD '16) presents "Distinguishing Human from Computer Traits at Game Play." Tamal's PhD advisor is Ken Regan. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Dr. Murat Demirbas and students in Davis Hall. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
Zakieh Hashemifar (PhD candidate) presents "Distributed Tunnel Mapping with Limited Communications" at CSE Industrial Career Day '16. Zakieh's PhD advisor is Karthik Dantu. Photo credit: Onion Studio
Dr. Ifeoma Nwogu and Dr. Venu Govindaraju of the Center for Unified Biometrics and Sensors (CUBS) in Davis Hall, 2012. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
Andrew Hughes (PhD '16), Anand Sathyaraja (PhD '15), and Nils Wisiol (MS '14) at UB Hacking '14, April 5, 2014. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Swetank Kumar Saha (PhD candidate) presents "A First Look at TCP Performance in Indoor IEEE 802.11ad WLANs". Swetank's PhD advisor is Dimitrios Koutsonikolas. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Dr. Ken Regan is an internationally-recognized pioneer and authority in the field of algorithmic chess cheating detection. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
Dr. Ranga Setlur, Dr. Venu Govindaraju, Utkarsh Porwal (PhD '14), Devansh Arpit (PhD '17), and Yingbo Zhou (PhD '15) at SEAS Poster Session '13, March 7, 2013. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Ying Yang (PhD '17), Poonam Kumari (MS '18), and Will Spoth (PhD candidate) discuss the latest production from the ODIn Lab, "Mimir: ETL Made On-Demand", at CSE Industrial Career Day '16. Ying, Poonam, and Will's PhD advisor is Oliver Kennedy. Photo credit: Onion Studio
Davis Hall, the headquarters of the CSE graduate program.
Dr. Marco Gaboardi, award winner Mengdi Huai (PhD Candidate), and Dr. Karthik Dantu at CSE Demo Day '17, December 7, 2017. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Dr. Aidong Zhang in the Davis Hall data center. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
First (or second?) UB CS PhD graduate Bruce Shriver (PhD '71) discusses "Unconventional Computer Architectures" at the CSE 50th Anniversary celebration in the CFA, September 29, 2017. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Darshana Balakrishnan (PhD candidate) presents "Just in Time Datastructure" at CSE Demo Day '17, December 7, 2017. Darshana's PhD advisors are Oliver Kennedy and Luke Ziarek. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Dr. Dimitrios Koutsonikolas, Dr. Ram Sridhar, and Swetank Kumar (PhD candidate) discuss a project in Davis Hall. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
Hu Ding (PhD '15) presents "k-Prototype Learning for 3D Rigid Structures" at CSE Student Poster Competition '14, March 26, 2014. Hu's PhD advisor is Jinhui Xu. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Dr. Sargur Srihari and students in the former Center of Excellence for Document Analysis and Recognition (CEDAR) headquarters in the UB Commons, 2006. Photo credit: Douglas Levere
Si Chen (PhD '16) and Muyuan Li (MS '16) present "The Power of IndoorCrowd: Crowdsourcing Building Interior View and Skeleton Reconstruction" at CSE Student Poster Competition '14, March 26, 2014. Si and Muyuan's PhD advisor is Kui Ren. Photo credit: Ken Smith
The Bloomberg delegation at UB Hacking '14, April 5, 2014. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Grad students pitch their research projects at CSE Student Poster Session '13. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Dr. Qiao at CSE Demo Day '18, December 7, 2018. Photo credit: Ken Smith
Slideshow
previous
next
of
change view
fullscreen
Our premier graduate program offers tracks leading to the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and the Master of Science (MS) in Computer Science and Engineering.
We are a dynamic department with a strong national and international reputation for excellence. We are ready to help you reach your potential as a scholar and contributor to the development of your chosen specialty.
The most recent 2017
US News and World Report
on Best Global Universities ranked our Computer Science and Engineering Graduate Program
36th in the US
.
CS Rankings.org
ranked our Computer Science and Engineering Program 30th in the US in 2019-2022.
Scholar Ranking
ranked our doctoral program in computer science, based on faculty citations, 46th of 173 US doctoral programs in computer science in 2017.
Our
U.S. News and World Report Best Grad Schools Rankings
Computer Science Graduate Program ranking amongst all grad schools rose from 63rd in 2014-2015 to
61st
in 2018-2019.
Our
U.S. News and World Report Best Grad Schools Rankings
Computer Engineering Graduate Program ranking amongst all grad schools rose from 63rd in 2014-2015 to
52nd
in 2019-2020.
Learn more about our graduate program below.
Admissions
2/5/24
Learn how to apply and be admitted to the PhD and MS programs in Computer Science and Engineering.
Academic Advisement
8/29/24
The CSE Graduate Office provides academic advisement services.
Degrees & Programs
5/31/24
Discover which graduate program is right for you
—a Computer Science and Engineering PhD, a Computer Science and Engineering MS, a special joint academic programs degree, or an advanced certificate.
Scholarships, Fellowships, Assistantships, and Awards
11/22/24
Scholarships and assistantships are available to attract and support graduate students who have demonstrated exceptional academic performance and potential.
Courses
5/19/22
The
UB Graduate Academic Schedule
lists our graduate
Fall
,
Spring
, and
Summer
course offerings.
Resources for Current Students
8/14/23
These resources document the policies, rules, and study habits that will help you succeed in your academic program.
Experiential Learning
1/3/24
Experiential learning gives you substantial preparation to enter the scientific and engineering professions and helps you explore future career options.  Many program graduates credit these experiences with giving them a competitive advantage during job searches and a smoother transition to full-time employment.
GRADUATE OFFICE
Director of Graduate Admissions
Dr. Junsong Yuan
338H Davis Hall
Co-Director of Graduate Studies
Dr. Oliver Kennedy
211 Capen Hall
Co-Director of Graduate Studies
Dr. Matthew Knepley
211A Capen Hall
Graduate Academic Coordinator
Erin Huff
338Q Davis Hall
Graduate Academic Coordinator
Ann Mangan
338Q Davis Hall
Graduate Academic Coordinator
Rain Williams
338S Davis Hall
Prospective Student Questions
gradeng@buffalo.edu
Current Student Questions
csegradcoord@buffalo.edu
Why Choose CSE?
previous
next
Research Sponsors
6/28/19
Numerous world-class agencies fund our departmental
research
initiatives.
Supercomputing
6/27/19
UB's
Center for Computational Research (CCR)
is considered one of the nation's leading supercomputing centers and supports high performance computing for departmental research in the areas of bioinformatics, medical image processing, virtual reality, and geographic information systems.
Research Funding
6/28/19
Our
faculty
average $4.5 million annually in external research awards. We were ranked 26th among 165 U.S. PhD-granting Computer Science Departments for annual research support, according to a recent survey conducted by the National Science Foundation.
Experiential Learning Opportunities
9/6/23
Gain hands-on experience via
graduate internships
,
research assistantships
, and
professional and student organizations
.
Industry Connections
6/27/19
Our industry partners include: Dell, IBM Corporation, IBM Digital, Kodak, Myricom, Praxair, Q-Chem, Sarnoff, Veridian Engineering Division, and Xerox.
Successful Alumni
11/2/22
Join the department’s
network of accomplished alumni
who have gone on to
top graduate programs and employment with companies such as Bloomberg, Google, and Microsoft.
Clubs
1/28/25
M
eet new friends and apply skills you've learned in class to cool, real-world projects; get involved in
professional and student organizations
—
such as the
UB Association for Computing Machinery (UB ACM)
,
UB Hacking
, and
UB Divtech
.
Established and Growing
6/27/19
Over the past three years, we have hired six new
faculty
members: in algorithms, databases, data mining, electronic commerce, natural language processing, and networks. Computer science was first organized as a department at UB in 1967—one of the first in the U.S.—and merged with computer engineering in 1998 to form the present department.
Bioinformatics and Life Sciences
5/20/19
At UB, you can get into one of the hottest new research fields right at the beginning. Our faculty has direct involvement in the new $200 million
New York State Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics and Life Sciences
, particularly in the high-performance computing and computational science areas of this research.
Cutting-Edge Research
2/10/20
Our
research areas
span artificial intelligence, systems, and theory; they are well-funded by federal, state, and industrial sources. Our
faculty
work in multi-disciplinary and newly emerging fields, such as bioinformatics, computer vision, machine learning, and robotics.
High Salaries
6/27/19
A degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering opens doors to exciting and rewarding careers that command high salaries. According to the
US Bureau of Labor Statistics Occupational Outlook Handbook
, the median income for all computing and information technology occupations was $82,860 in May 2016.
A Vibrant Community
7/15/19
Our graduates are hired by the best companies and research laboratories.
Wide-Ranging Curriculum
7/10/19
Tailor your studies to match your interests and career objectives with the department’s broad selection of
graduate courses
.
Community
7/10/19
Join a welcoming community.  You'll be part of a supportive, diverse, and dynamic environment.
Research Centers, Labs, and Groups
10/23/23
Our research centers, labs, and groups provide abundant opportunities for exploring state-of-the-art research and working with sophisticated computing facilities.
Document Analysis
10/15/21
Our affiliated
Center of Excellence for Document Analysis and Recognition (CEDAR)
is one of the world’s leading centers for research on interpreting scanned images. Among other accomplishments, CEDAR developed the systems that postal agencies around the world use for automatically sorting hand-addressed mail.
Multidisciplinary
6/28/19
Our faculty work with researchers in chemistry, the life sciences, the pharmaceutical sciences, media study, geographic information science, and other disciplines where an interface with computer science is increasingly central.  Learn more about our collaborative
research areas
.
Facilities
10/18/21
Use over 18,000 square feet of cutting-edge
research labs, teaching labs
, classrooms, and collaboration-focused meeting spaces.
Top-Notch Faculty
1/28/25
Be taught and mentored by
faculty members
who are outstanding teachers and internationally-recognized researchers.
More Reasons to Choose CSE